<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta name="generator" content="HTML Tidy for Mac OS X (vers 31 October 2006 - Apple Inc. build 13), see www.w3.org"/>

  <title>XML Design Patterns - Information</title>
  <meta name="DESCRIPTION" content="XMLPatterns.com - Designing Good XML Structure with Patterns. Patterns indexed by date."/>
  <meta name="KEYWORDS" content="XML, patterns, structure, DTD, XMLSchema, schema, design, designing, structuring, structural, document, documents, pattern, book, markup, language, mark up, effective, software, about, contact, info"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="indexPage.css"/>
  <style type="text/css" xml:space="preserve">
/**/
  :link { color: #556677 }
  :visited { color: #668099 }
  :active { color: #778899 }
  span.c194 {color: #000000; font-size: 80%}
  p.c193 {font-size: 120%}
  span.c192 {font-size: 64%}
  span.c191 {font-size: 80%}
  span.c190 {color: #000000; font-size: 64%}
  div.c189 {text-align: center}
  /**/
  </style>
</head>

<body>
  <table       width="100%">
    <tr>
      <td colspan="11" rowspan="1">
        <div class="c189">
           
        </div>
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td/>

      <td/>

      <td/>

      <td/>

      <td/>

      <td/>

      <td/>

      <td/>

      <td/>

      <td style="width:120px">
        <table cellpadding="1">
          <tr>
            <td><a href="index.html" shape="rect"><span class="c190"><b>XMLPatterns.com</b></span></a></td>
          </tr>

          <tr>
            <td><br  />
            <a title="XMLPatterns.com Home Page" href="index.html" class="navLink" shape="rect">Home</a></td>
          </tr>

          <tr>
            <td><br  />
            <a title="Backround material for understanding XML Design Patterns" href="intro.shtml" class="navLink" shape="rect">Introduction</a></td>
          </tr>

          <tr>
            <td><br  />
            <a title="The patterns themselves" href="patterns.shtml" class="navLink" shape="rect">Patterns</a></td>
          </tr>

          <tr>
            <td><br  />
            <a title="Books about patterns and XML" href="books.shtml" class="navLink" shape="rect">Books</a></td>
          </tr>

          <tr>
            <td><br  />
            <a title="Links to other web sites." href="links.shtml" class="navLink" shape="rect">Links</a></td>
          </tr>

          <tr>
            <td><br  />
            <span class="navCurrent">About</span></td>
          </tr>

          <tr>
            <td/>
          </tr>

          <tr>
            <td/>
          </tr>

          <tr>
            <td/>
          </tr>

          <tr>
            <td/>
          </tr>

          <tr>
            <td>
              <table>
                <tr>
                  <td><b><a href="http://www.vegasfreebie.com/" shape="rect">Vegas
                  Freebie!</a></b></td>
                </tr>

                <tr>
                  <td><a href="http://www.vegasfreebie.com/" shape="rect"><span class="c191">Free Things to do In Las
                  Vegas</span></a></td>
                </tr>

                <tr>
                  <td><a href="http://www.vegasfreebie.com/" shape="rect"><span class="c192">www.vegasfreebie.com</span></a></td>
                </tr>
              </table>
            </td>
          </tr>
        </table>
      </td>

      <td>
        <table       width="100%">
          <tr>
            <td><span class="title">XMLPatterns.com
            Information</span></td>
          </tr>

          <tr>
            <td/>
          </tr>

          <tr>
            <td/>
          </tr>

          <tr>
            <td/>
          </tr>

          <tr>
            <td/>
          </tr>

          <tr>
            <td/>
          </tr>

          <tr>
            <td/>
          </tr>

          <tr>
            <td>
              <table width="100%"     cellpadding="10">
                <tr>
                  <td>
                    <div class="text">
                      <p class="c193">Develop effective XML
                      documents using structural design
                      patterns.</p>

                       

                      <div class="smallheading">
                        Contacts
                      </div>

                      <p>Please feel free to send email using the
                      links below:</p>

                      <p>Comments about the website: <a href="mailto:webmaster@xmlpatterns.com" shape="rect">webmaster@xmlpatterns.com</a></p>

                      <p>Comments about the patterns: <a href="mailto:patterns@xmlpatterns.com" shape="rect">patterns@xmlpatterns.com</a></p>

                      <p>General comments and inquiries,
                      advertising information: <a href="mailto:info@xmlpatterns.com" shape="rect">info@xmlpatterns.com</a></p><br  />


                      <div class="smallheading">
                        What They Are Saying About Us
                      </div>

                      <p>"A very interesting approach to
                      designing/developing XML documents. I would
                      say that it is a must-read for any serious
                      XML developer, not to mention a very
                      interesting concept!!!!!" (<a href="cgi-bin/leave-51821.cgi" shape="rect">XMLPitstop</a>)<br  />

                      <br  />
                      "XMLPatterns has really helped me get a
                      handle on the conceptual structure of data"
                      Derrick Bell (<a href="cgi-bin/leave-32766.cgi" shape="rect">Secrets of the XML
                      developer elite</a>)<br  />
                      <br  />
                      "I recently came across an oustanding
                      reference site on design patterns for
                      creating good XML. The site is
                      XMLPatterns.com. The content has already been
                      very helpful to me and I recommend this as a
                      useful reference link." (<a href="cgi-bin/leave-30113.cgi" shape="rect">CSharpener's
                      Weblog</a>)<br  />
                      <br  /></p><br  />

                      <div class="smallheading">
                        Privacy Statement
                      </div>

                      <p>Our basic privacy policy is simple. We
                      will not rent, sell, or share personal
                      information that we collect about you.</p>

                      <p>At XMLPatterns.com, we recognize that
                      privacy of your personal information is
                      important. Here is information on what types
                      of personal information we receive and
                      collect when you use and visit
                      XMLPatterns.com, and how we safeguard your
                      information. We never sell your personal
                      information to third parties.</p>

                      <h3>Log Files</h3>

                      <p>As with most other websites, we collect
                      and use the data contained in log files. The
                      information in the log files include your IP
                      (internet protocol) address, your ISP
                      (internet service provider, such as AOL or
                      Shaw Cable), the browser you used to visit
                      our site (such as Internet Explorer or
                      Firefox), the time you visited our site and
                      which pages you visited throughout our
                      site.</p>

                      <h3>Cookies and Web Beacons</h3>

                      <p>We do use cookies to store information,
                      such as your personal preferences when you
                      visit our site. This could include only
                      showing you a popup once in your visit, or
                      the ability to login to some of our features,
                      such as forums.</p>

                      <p>We also use third party advertisements on
                      XMLPatterns.com to support our site. Some of
                      these advertisers may use technology such as
                      cookies and web beacons when they advertise
                      on our site, which will also send these
                      advertisers (such as Google through the
                      Google AdSense program) information including
                      your IP address, your ISP , the browser you
                      used to visit our site, and in some cases,
                      whether you have Flash installed. This is
                      generally used for geotargeting purposes
                      (showing New York real estate ads to someone
                      in New York, for example) or showing certain
                      ads based on specific sites visited (such as
                      showing cooking ads to someone who frequents
                      cooking sites).</p>

                      <h3>DoubleClick DART cookies</h3>

                      <p>We also may use DART cookings for ad
                      serving through Google's DoubleClick, which
                      places a cookie on your computer when you are
                      browsing the web and visit a site using
                      DoubleClick advertising (including some
                      Google AdSense advertisements). This cookie
                      is used to serve ads specific to you and your
                      interests ("interest based targeting"). The
                      ads served will be targeted based on your
                      previous browsing history (For example, if
                      you have been viewing sites about visiting
                      Las Vegas, you may see Las Vegas hotel
                      advertisements when viewing a non-related
                      site, such as on a site about hockey). DART
                      uses "non personally identifiable
                      information". It does NOT track personal
                      information about you, such as your name,
                      email address, physical address, telephone
                      number, social security numbers, bank account
                      numbers or credit card numbers. You can
                      opt-out of this ad serving on all sites using
                      this advertising by visiting
                      http://www.doubleclick.com/privacy/dart_adserving.aspx</p>

                      <p>You can chose to disable or selectively
                      turn off our cookies or third-party cookies
                      in your browser settings, or by managing
                      preferences in programs such as Norton
                      Internet Security. However, this can affect
                      how you are able to interact with our site as
                      well as other websites. This could include
                      the inability to login to services or
                      programs, such as logging into forums or
                      accounts.</p>

                      <p>Deleting cookies does not mean you are
                      permanently opted out of any advertising
                      program. Unless you have settings that
                      disallow cookies, the next time you visit a
                      site running the advertisements, a new cookie
                      will be added.</p>

                      <p>We have relationships with other companies
                      that we allow to place ads on our Web pages.
                      As a result of your visit to our site, ad
                      server companies may collect information such
                      as your domain type, your IP address and
                      clickstream information and may be placing
                      and reading cookies on your browser. If you
                      wish to disable cookies, you may do so
                      through your browser options.</p><br  />
                      <br  />

                      <div class="smallheading">
                        Copyright
                      </div>This website Copyright © 2000-2000
                      Toivo Lainevool. All rights reserved.
                    </div><br  />
                    <br  />
                  </td>

                  <td>
                    <table>
                      <tr>
                        <td>
                           
                        </td>
                      </tr>
                    </table>
                  </td>
                </tr>
              </table>
            </td>
          </tr>

          <tr>
            <td/>
          </tr>
        </table>
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td colspan="11" rowspan="1"/>
    </tr>
  </table>

  
</body></html>