<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta name="generator" content=
  "HTML Tidy for Mac OS X (vers 31 October 2006 - Apple Inc. build 13), see www.w3.org" />

  <title>XML Design Patterns - Choice Reducing Container</title>
  <meta name="DESCRIPTION" content=
  "XMLPatterns.com - Designing Good XML Structure with Patterns. Choice Reducing Container." />
  <meta name="KEYWORDS" content=
  "XML, patterns, structure, DTD, XMLSchema, schema, design, designing, structuring, structural, document, documents, pattern, book, markup, language, mark up, effective, software, introduction" />
  </head>

<body>
  <b>XMLPatterns.com</b>

  <div>
    <h1>Choice Reducing Container</h1>

    <h2>Abstract</h2>When creating large DTDs, authors are required
    to learn a large number of attributes and elements, and where
    they can be positioned in order to know how to use the DTD. By
    reducing the number of choices that the author has to make at
    any point in the DTD by group related elements beneath newly
    introduced elements, the learning requirements of the author
    can be reduced.

    <h2>Problem</h2>In a complex DTD with many elements and
    attributes, a user of a document can be overwhelmed with the
    number of choices that have to be made. With many options users
    have a difficult time knowing all of the elements available and
    the order that these appear in.

    <h2>Context</h2>In large, general-purpose DTDs where many
    logical units are presented, and the documents are expected to
    be authored by humans.

    <h2>Forces</h2>When the underlying order of the data to be
    represented, or to make DTDs applicable in many situations,
    large numbers of logical units need to appear in the DTD.
    However, presenting large numbers of attributes and elements
    makes the DTD more difficult to learn by authors of documents.

    <h2>Solution</h2>Present only a limited number of choices to
    the author at any point within the document. If the author has
    the choice of insert 100 different elements at some point in
    the document, it can be difficult to know how to proceed. By
    grouping elements into related sets, the number choices to be
    made at any one point can be reduced. The author has to choose
    between only a few higher level groups instead of many more
    detailed elements.

    <h2>Examples</h2>Here is a DTD that presents several choices to
    the author:
    <pre>
        <tt>

&lt;!ELEMENT Doc
( Para
| OrderedList
| UnorderedList
| Figure
| Artwork )+&gt;

        </tt>
      
</pre>The author here is present with a choice of 5 different
elements to choose from after creating the Doc element. This choice
could be limited by introducing new elements and grouping some of
the existing elements together as children of the new elements like
this:
    <pre>
        <tt>

&lt;!ELEMENT Doc (Para | List | Illustration )+)&gt;
&lt;!ELEMENT List (OrderedList | UnorderedList )&gt;
&lt;!ELEMENT Illustration (Figure | Artwork )&gt;

        </tt>
      
</pre>

    <h2>Discussion</h2>Once the Choice Reducing Pattern is applied,
    the learning requirements placed on the author of documents is
    reduced. Application of this pattern can however lead to an
    increase in the overall number of element types in the DTD. The
    number of elements in the above example went from 6 to 8 when
    the Group Choice pattern was applied. This can make the overall
    complexity of the DTD higher. It can also increase the size of
    documents.

    <p>The Choice Reducing Pattern hides choices from the authors
    of documents by introducing new elements that hide the details
    of a piece of the document that the author might not care about
    at that point in time. By introducing a single higher level
    element, the number of choices the author needs to make is
    lower, thereby reducing the learning requirements of the
    author.</p>

    <h2>Related Patterns</h2>

    <p>This Choice Reducing Container is similar to the
    <cite>Optional Container Element</cite> in that they both try
    to make the DTD easier to use by the author by introducing new
    element types. Existing elements are grouped together as
    children of the new element. One difference between the two is
    the context they are used in. The Choice Reducing Container
    relates elements that are all choices in a content group while
    the <cite>Optional Container Element</cite> relates optional
    elements from the content group.</p>

    <p>The motivation for the two is also different. In the Choice
    Reducing Container, the amount of information at any one point
    is reduced, but it is not intended to reduce the overall
    complexity of the document for a single author. The
    <cite>Optional Container Element</cite> hides parts of the
    structure permanently from the view of individual authors. It
    is likely that some authors will never use certain parts of
    large DTDs.</p>

    <h2>Known Uses</h2>

    <h2>References</h2>See <cite>Structuring XML Documents</cite>,
    Section 4.2.1 - Limiting Choices.
  </div>
</body>
</html>
