<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta name="generator" content=
  "HTML Tidy for Mac OS X (vers 31 October 2006 - Apple Inc. build 13), see www.w3.org" />

  <title>XML Design Patterns - Common Attributes</title>
  <meta name="DESCRIPTION" content=
  "XMLPatterns.com - Designing Good XML Structure with Patterns. Common Attributes." />
  <meta name="KEYWORDS" content=
  "XML, patterns, structure, DTD, XMLSchema, schema, design, designing, structuring, structural, document, documents, pattern, book, markup, language, mark up, effective, software, introduction" />
  </head>

<body>
  <b>XMLPatterns.com</b>

  <div>
    <h1>Common Attributes</h1>

    <h2>Abstract</h2>Provide a set of attributes that can be placed
    on all, or most, elements in the document type.

    <h2>Problem</h2>There are properties that belong to every
    element in the document. These properties need to be presented
    to the document author in an understandable way.

    <h2>Context</h2>This is a widely applicable pattern and can be
    used anywhere that a large number of elements need the same
    attributes applied. It is a common technique for attributes
    such as IDs, security, and roles.

    <h2>Forces</h2>The usability of the document type depends a lot
    on consistency, and this pattern can be used to add
    consistency.

    <h2>Solution</h2>Create a common set of attributes that will be
    used by all or most of the elements in the document type.

    <h2>Examples</h2>

    <div>
      <h3>Common Attributes in DTDs</h3>

      <p>This examples shows a DTD that has two common attributes,
      <tt>id</tt> and <tt>role</tt>, on its all of its elements.
      The common attribute definition is placed in a parameter
      entity which is referenced by all of the ATTLIST
      definitions.</p>
      <pre>
            <tt>

&lt;!ENTITY % common.att
'id   ID      #IMPLIED
role NMTOKEN #IMPLIED'&gt;

&lt;!ELEMENT Person (FirstName, LastName)&gt;
&lt;!ATTLIST Person %common.att;&gt;

&lt;!ELEMENT FirstName (#PCDATA)&gt;
&lt;!ATTLIST FirstName %common.att;&gt;

&lt;!ELEMENT LastName (#PCDATA)&gt;
&lt;!ATTLIST LastName %common.att;&gt;

            </tt>
          
</pre>
    </div>

    <div>
      <h3>Common Attributes in XML Schemas</h3>This example shows
      how to implement the same document structure as the above
      examples using the <cite>XSL Schema language Attributes
      Groups</cite> (http://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema-0/#AttrGroups)
      .
      <pre>
          <tt>

&lt;?xml version="1.0"?&gt;
&lt;schema xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/XMLSchema"
targetNamespace="http://www.xmlpatterns.com/XMLSchema-fragment"
xmlns:xsf="http://www.xmlpatterns.com/XMLSchema-fragment"&gt;

&lt;attributeGroup name="CommonAtts"&gt;
&lt;attribute name="id" type="ID"/&gt;
&lt;attribute name="role" type="NMTOKEN"/&gt;
&lt;/attributeGroup&gt;

&lt;complexType name="NameType"&gt;
&lt;attributeGroup ref="CommonAtts"/&gt;
&lt;/complexType&gt;

&lt;complexType name="PersonType" content="elementOnly"&gt;
&lt;element name="FirstName" type="xsf:NameType"/&gt;
&lt;element name="LastName" type="xsf:NameType"/&gt;
&lt;attributeGroup ref="CommonAtts"/&gt;
&lt;/complexType&gt;

&lt;element name="Person" type="xsf:PersonType"/&gt;

&lt;/schema&gt;

          </tt>
        
</pre>
    </div>

    <h2>Discussion</h2>

    <p>Global attributes often add many choices at any point in the
    document. Users have more selections available to them, and
    this could complicate authoring, however, some of the
    complexity that adding attributes to every element brings is
    lessened if these attributes are applied consistently. If users
    can expect the same common attribute on every element, it does
    not take a lot of extra effort to process the information. It
    will be easier to author or process a document that has a
    consistently applied set of common attributes on all elements
    compared to one that has inconsistently applied attributes on
    most of the elements.</p>

    <p>An ID attribute is a typical use for a common attribute. It
    is useful to be able to reference any element in the document
    using this.</p>

    <h2>Related Patterns</h2>The common attributes are usually
    declared in a <cite>Flyweight</cite> to help maintainability.

    <h2>Known Uses</h2>The <cite>XMLspec DTD Common Attributes
    Chapter</cite>
    (http://www.w3.org/XML/1998/06/xmlspec-report-v21.htm#cmnatts)
    explains the use of common attributes in the DTD.

    <p>XHTML defines a set of core attributes. These attributes are
    applied to almost every element in the XHTML document type. The
    core attributes are defined like this:</p>
    <pre>
          <tt>

&lt;!ENTITY % coreattrs
"id     ID           #IMPLIED
class  CDATA        #IMPLIED
style  %StyleSheet; #IMPLIED
title  %Text;       #IMPLIED"
&gt;

          </tt>
        
</pre>Even the simple line break element has these attributes added
to it:
    <pre>
          <tt>

&lt;!ELEMENT br EMPTY&gt;  &lt;!-- forced line break --&gt;
&lt;!ATTLIST br
%coreattrs;
&gt;

          </tt>
        
</pre>

    <h2>References</h2>See <cite>Structuring XML Documents</cite>,
    Section 3.2.4: Global Attributes. Thanks to <cite>Hans C.
    Arents</cite> for supplying the correct XSL Schema definition
    used in the pattern.
  </div>
</body>
</html>
