<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta name="generator" content=
  "HTML Tidy for Mac OS X (vers 31 October 2006 - Apple Inc. build 13), see www.w3.org" />

  <title>XML Design Patterns - Content Type Label</title>
  <meta name="DESCRIPTION" content=
  "XMLPatterns.com - Designing Good XML Structure with Patterns. Content Type Label." />
  <meta name="KEYWORDS" content=
  "XML, patterns, structure, DTD, XMLSchema, schema, design, designing, structuring, structural, document, documents, pattern, book, markup, language, mark up, effective, software, introduction" />
  </head>

<body>
  <b>XMLPatterns.com</b>

  <div>
    <h1>Content Type Label</h1>

    <h2>Abstract</h2>Parameter entities are created to represent
    different types of values within a DTD.

    <h2>Problem</h2>DTDs provide limited type information for
    content of attributes and elements. Type information is often
    useful to have in a language.

    <h2>Context</h2>Any time DTDs are used and it is useful to
    convey type information.

    <h2>Forces</h2>Expressing type information helps in creating
    understandable and maintainable DTDs.

    <h2>Solution</h2>Create parameter entities to represent
    different data types. These parameters can be used in attribute
    and element content descriptions.

    <h2>Examples</h2>The following DTD fragment is taken from a
    payroll system. The first line defines a parameter entity to
    represent a employee number type. In each place in the DTD
    where a employee number is needed as content, this parameter
    entity is used.
    <pre>
        <tt>

&lt;!ENTITY % EmployeeNum "NMTOKEN"&gt;

&lt;!ELEMENT Order (LineItem*)&gt;

&lt;!ELEMENT Employee (Name, Address)&gt;
&lt;!ATTLIST Employee Number %EmployeeNum;&gt;

&lt;!ELEMENT PayRecord (Period, Hours)&gt;
&lt;!ATTLIST PayRecord Employee %EmployeeNum;&gt;

        </tt>
      
</pre>

    <h2>Discussion</h2>

    <div>
      This pattern does not change the structure or constraints of
      the documents that are instances of the DTD, but it does make
      the DTD easier to understand and maintain.
    </div>

    <div>
      This pattern increases understandability of the DTD by
      documenting the intended use of the content types to readers
      of the DTD. Looking at the above example we can see that it
      becomes obvious that the Employee's Number attribute and the
      PayRecord's Employee attribute contain the same type of
      value. If they were both just NMTOKENs this may not have been
      as obvious.
    </div>

    <div>
      Maintainability of DTDs is increased by allowing all related
      content types to be changed from a single place. For
      instance, in the Examples section above if the company this
      payroll system was created for merges with another company,
      and the employee numbers from the new company can contain a
      space, the "NMTOKEN" attribute type is no longer valid. By
      changing the EmployeeNum parameter entity to "CDATA", all
      references to the employee number in the DTD can be changed.
    </div>

    <h2>Related Patterns</h2>This is an example of a
    <cite>Flyweight</cite>.

    <h2>Known Uses</h2><cite>XHTML</cite>
    (http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/) uses Content Type Labels
    extensively. For example:
    <pre>
        <tt>

&lt;!ENTITY % URI "CDATA"&gt;
&lt;!-- a Uniform Resource Identifier, see [RFC2396] --&gt;

&lt;!ENTITY % FrameTarget "NMTOKEN"&gt;
&lt;!-- render in this frame --&gt;

&lt;!-- document base URI --&gt;

&lt;!ELEMENT base EMPTY&gt;
&lt;!ATTLIST base
href        %URI;          #IMPLIED
target      %FrameTarget;  #IMPLIED
&gt;

        </tt>
      
</pre>The above excepts shows how Content Type Labels are used to
make it clearer what is expected in the attributes of the
<tt>base</tt> element.

    <h2>References</h2>The document <cite>XML Modularization of
    HTML 4.0</cite>
    (http://www.altheim.com/specs/xhtml/NOTE-xhtml-modular.html#sec2.2.1)
    by Murray Altheim explains the use of this pattern in XHTML.
  </div>
</body>
</html>
