<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta name="generator" content=
  "HTML Tidy for Mac OS X (vers 31 October 2006 - Apple Inc. build 13), see www.w3.org" />

  <title>XML Design Patterns - Head-Body</title>
  <meta name="DESCRIPTION" content=
  "XMLPatterns.com - Designing Good XML Structure with Patterns. Head-Body." />
  <meta name="KEYWORDS" content=
  "XML, patterns, structure, DTD, XMLSchema, schema, design, designing, structuring, structural, document, documents, pattern, book, markup, language, mark up, effective, software, introduction" />
  </head>

<body>
  <b>XMLPatterns.com</b>

  <div>
    <h1>Head-Body</h1>

    <h2>Abstract</h2>When a large amount of metadata needs to be
    included in an element the designer may create two children for
    the element, one for the metadata and one for the body of the
    document.

    <h2>Problem</h2>Sometimes, an element has a large amount of
    metadata, and this metadata may need to be structured. In
    common XML usage, attributes are used for metadata. But with a
    large amount of metadata it is difficult for authors to include
    this information within attributes, which have limited
    structure. Including metadata as sibling elements of content
    elements leads to the potential to confuse the metadata and the
    data meant to be in the body of the element.

    <h2>Context</h2>There is a large amount of metadata about some
    piece of content. For example information about the title,
    creation date, and authors of a document should be included
    with the document, but this is not really information that
    belong in the body of the document.

    <h2>Forces</h2>A clear separation is needed between what is
    metadata and what is data that forms the body of the document.
    This affects ease of authoring and processing of the document
    because the context of the data is implied. The metadata needed
    for an element needs to structured in such a way that
    attributes are difficult to use.

    <h2>Solution</h2>Create head and body elements. The element
    that contains the head and body elements can be referred to as
    the skeleton element. The metadata for the document goes into
    the head element, and the data for the document itself goes
    into the body element. The XML takes the following form:
    <pre>
        <tt>

&lt;Skeleton&gt;
&lt;Head&gt;
... meta information ...
&lt;/Head&gt;
&lt;Body&gt;
... body of document ...
&lt;/Body&gt;
&lt;/Skeletion&gt;

        </tt>
      
</pre>

    <h2>Examples</h2>
    <pre>
        <tt>

&lt;Document&gt;
&lt;Head&gt;
&lt;Author&gt;John Doe&lt;/Author&gt;
&lt;Author&gt;Frank Black&lt;/Author&gt;
&lt;CreationDate&gt;June 16, 1999&lt;/CreationDate&gt;
&lt;/Head&gt;
&lt;Body&gt;
This is a document.
&lt;/Body&gt;
&lt;/Document&gt;

        </tt>
      
</pre>In this case, the skeleton element is the document root, and
the metadata is structured information about the authors of the
document and the creation date of the document. The Head-Body
pattern is often used at the document level, but it can also be
used at levels deeper within a document. For example the pattern
could be used inside of a Table element like this:
    <pre>
        <tt>

&lt;Document&gt;
&lt;Table&gt;
&lt;TableHead&gt;
&lt;Title&gt;
A &lt;Italic&gt;Sample&lt;Italic&gt; Table
&lt;/Title&gt;
&lt;/TableHead&gt;
&lt;TableBody&gt;
&lt;Row&gt;Row 1&lt;/Row&gt;
&lt;Row&gt;Row 2&lt;/Row&gt;
&lt;/TableBody&gt;
&lt;/Table&gt;
&lt;/Document&gt;

        </tt>
      
</pre>In this case the skeleton element is a table, which needs
structure for its Title data.

    <h2>Discussion</h2>

    <p>Two new elements are introduced which distinguish the
    metadata from the body of the document. This gives processing
    software context to distinguish these two types of data.</p>

    <p>Because this introduced two additional elements, the
    resulting documents are larger than they would be without the
    application of this pattern</p>

    <p>The resulting documents are often easier to understand
    because of the clear separation of metadata and the document
    body itself. The metadata is in the Head element and the
    document itself goes in the Body element. Authors and
    processing software can clearly distinguish the context of the
    data they are using.</p>

    <p>Documents are also often easier to process because they
    allow metadata to be structured, unlike if attributes were use
    for the metadata of the document.</p>

    <p>For an interesting alternative, see Don Park's "Neck"
    pattern
    (http://www.docuverse.com/blog/donpark/EntryViewPage.aspx?guid=831)</p>

    <h2>Related Patterns</h2>The Head-Body Pattern consists of two
    new <cite>Container Element</cite>s added to the structure of
    the document, one for the Head element, and one for the Body.
    This is a specialization of the <cite>Separate Metadata and
    Data</cite>.

    <h2>Known Uses</h2>

    <p>HEAD and BODY elements in XHTML.</p>

    <p><cite>SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol)</cite>
    (http://www.w3.org/TR/SOAP/) uses Header and Body Elements
    inside an Envelope element.</p>

    <h2>References</h2>Rick Jelliffe discusses this in a chapter
    entitled "The Document Shell" in: <cite>The XML &amp; SGML
    Cookbook: Recipes for Structured Information</cite>
  </div>
</body>
</html>
