<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta name="generator" content=
  "HTML Tidy for Mac OS X (vers 31 October 2006 - Apple Inc. build 13), see www.w3.org" />

  <title>XML Design Patterns - Metadata in Separate
  Document</title>
  <meta name="DESCRIPTION" content=
  "XMLPatterns.com - Designing Good XML Structure with Patterns. Metadata in Separate Document." />
  <meta name="KEYWORDS" content=
  "XML, patterns, structure, DTD, XMLSchema, schema, design, designing, structuring, structural, document, documents, pattern, book, markup, language, mark up, effective, software, introduction" />
  </head>

<body>
  <b>XMLPatterns.com</b>

  <div>
    <h1>Metadata in Separate Document</h1>

    <h2>Abstract</h2>When there is a large amount of metadata for a
    document it can make sense to separate this into a different
    document altogether, with its own document type.

    <h2>Problem</h2>There may a large amount of metadata for a
    document. If much of this data is required, it could make the
    document difficult to author and read.

    <h2>Context</h2>There is a large amount of metadata to be
    associated with the documents. If the metadata for several
    documents is the same.

    <h2>Forces</h2>Metadata can add complexity to a document,
    making it more difficult to author a document. When processing
    documents, the metadata may not be needed by some programs.
    Having the metadata in the document can increase processing
    time.

    <h2>Solution</h2>

    <p>Place the metadata in the separate document. This document
    should have its own document type. There is a link placed in
    the document that refers to the metadata document.</p>

    <p>If the metadata for several documents is the same, this can
    be a very good pattern to use. If, for example, a document
    requires extensive biographical information about its authors,
    and several of the documents are by the same author, the single
    metadata document can be used to minimize replication and ease
    maintenance.</p>

    <p>External parsed entities parsed entities can be used in a
    similar way, but the document type of the original document
    does not get simplified.</p>

    <h2>Examples</h2>Here is an example that references author
    information from an external file.

    <p>File: author-info.xml</p>
    <pre>
        <tt>

&lt;Author&gt;
&lt;Name&gt;Robert Smith&lt;/Name&gt;
&lt;BirthDate&gt;21-04-1960&lt;/BirthDate&gt;
&lt;Address&gt;123 Maple Street&lt;/Address&gt;
&lt;/Author&gt;

        </tt>
      
</pre>File: document.xml
    <pre>
        <tt>

&lt;!DOCTYPE DOCUMENT[
&lt;!ENTITY author-info SYSTEM "author-info.xml"&gt;
]&gt;
&lt;Document&gt;
&lt;Head&gt;
&amp;author-info;
&lt;/Head&gt;
&lt;Body&gt;
This is the document.
&lt;/Body&gt;
&lt;/Document&gt;

        </tt>
      
</pre>

    <h2>Discussion</h2>

    <p>This pattern makes the separation between the data and the
    metadata very clear, very little confusion can be made between
    the data and metadata.</p>

    <p>The metadata and data can be defined at different times in
    the development cycle, allowing for iterative development, or
    for different authors to work on the data and metadata at the
    same time.</p>

    <p>By having the metadata in a separate document, many
    documents can include the metadata from the same source. In the
    Example above, if the address of the author had changed, all of
    the documents which included this document would be
    automatically changed as well.</p>

    <h2>Related Patterns</h2>This is a specialization of both the
    the <cite>Separate Metadata and Data</cite> and patterns.

    <h2>Known Uses</h2>

    <h2>References</h2>See: <cite>The XML &amp; SGML
    Cookbook</cite> page 2-23.
  </div>
</body>
</html>
