<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta name="generator" content=
  "HTML Tidy for Mac OS X (vers 31 October 2006 - Apple Inc. build 13), see www.w3.org" />

  <title>XML Design Patterns - Multiple Document Types</title>
  <meta name="DESCRIPTION" content=
  "XMLPatterns.com - Designing Good XML Structure with Patterns. Multiple Document Types." />
  <meta name="KEYWORDS" content=
  "XML, patterns, structure, DTD, XMLSchema, schema, design, designing, structuring, structural, document, documents, pattern, book, markup, language, mark up, effective, software, introduction" />
  </head>

<body>
  <b>XMLPatterns.com</b>

  <div>
    <h1>Multiple Document Types</h1>

    <h2>Abstract</h2>When a system needs to represent a range of
    different document types, each document type can be represented
    by a completely separate declarations.

    <h2>Problem</h2>A system needs to represent different types of
    information. This information may be used at different times,
    or may be used by different parts of the system.

    <h2>Context</h2>Systems which need to represent a variety of
    information at different times or places.

    <h2>Forces</h2>Processing and authoring of documents can be
    simplified if different document types are used to represent
    different sets of data.

    <h2>Solution</h2>Use different document types to represent
    different sets of data within the system.

    <h2>Examples</h2>

    <div>
      In a payroll system, data about the Employees, and data about
      the hours they work can be represented by separate documents.
    </div>Employees.dtd:
    <pre>
        <tt>

&lt;!ELEMENT Employee (Name, HourlyRate)&gt;
&lt;!ATTLIST Employee id ID #REQUIRED&gt;

&lt;!ELEMENT Name (#PCDATA)&gt;

&lt;!ELEMENT HourlyRate (#PCDATA)&gt;

        </tt>
      
</pre>HoursWorked.dtd:
    <pre>
        <tt>

&lt;!ELEMENT PayPeriod (Employee+)&gt;
&lt;!ATTLIST PayPeriod
StartDate #CDATA
EndDate   #CDATA&gt;

&lt;!ELEMENT Employee (HoursWorked)&gt;
&lt;!ATTLIST Employee id NMTOKEN&gt;

&lt;!ELEMENT HoursWorked (#PCDATA)&gt;

        </tt>
      
</pre>

    <h2>Discussion</h2>

    <div>
      If different people will authoring the different types of
      documents it is a good idea to have completely separate
      document types, because authors will not need to be exposed
      to parts of the document types that are not needed.
    </div>

    <div>
      Having separate document types allows the different DTDs to
      be versioned independently.
    </div>

    <h2>Related Patterns</h2><cite>Universal Root</cite> allows
    multiple types of data under one document root. <cite>Multi
    Root Document Types</cite> allows for multiple types of
    documents to be declared in a single declaration.

    <h2>Known Uses</h2>
  </div>
</body>
</html>
