<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta name="generator" content=
  "HTML Tidy for Mac OS X (vers 31 October 2006 - Apple Inc. build 13), see www.w3.org" />

  <title>XML Design Patterns - Parallel Design</title>
  <meta name="DESCRIPTION" content=
  "XMLPatterns.com - Designing Good XML Structure with Patterns. Parallel Design." />
  <meta name="KEYWORDS" content=
  "XML, patterns, structure, DTD, XMLSchema, schema, design, designing, structuring, structural, document, documents, pattern, book, markup, language, mark up, effective, software, introduction" />
  </head>

<body>
  <b>XMLPatterns.com</b>

  <div>
    <h1>Parallel Design</h1>

    <h2>Abstract</h2>Creating structures that for different
    elements that are very similar to one another makes DTD easier
    to use and understand.

    <h2>Problem</h2>Authoring a document with complex structure can
    be difficult if there are many elements, and each of these
    elements has their own particular content models.

    <h2>Context</h2>Any document that is large enough to be
    potentially difficult to learn.

    <h2>Forces</h2>Having consistency in the structure of document
    types makes document instances easier to learn and process.

    <h2>Solution</h2>For elements that are similar in function use
    structures that are as close to identical as possible.

    <h2>Examples</h2>
    <pre>
        <tt>

&lt;!ELEMENT Figure (Title, FigureBody, Number?)&gt;
&lt;!ATTLIST Figure height CDATA
width  CDATA
id     ID  #REQUIRED&gt;

&lt;!ELEMENT Table (Title, TableBody, Number?)&gt;
&lt;!ATTLIST Table height CDATA
width  CDATA
id     ID  #REQUIRED&gt;

        </tt>
      
</pre>These two elements "Figure" and "Table" have very similar
content and identical attribute lists. This makes it very easy for
authors of the document. Once they have learned the structure of
one of the elements, the other one will be easy to use. The more
variation there is between the two, the easier it is to confuse the
two structures.

    <h2>Discussion</h2>The more consistent the structure of various
    elements is the easier it is to learn to use a document type.
    Subtle differences in structure can be particularly difficult
    to learn. If, for example, in the above example, one of the
    "id" attributes was IMPLIED and the other one was REQUIRED,
    this would be a difficult distinction to remember. Users would
    constantly need to refer to the documentation to remind them
    which element's id was required and which one wasn't.

    <h2>Related Patterns</h2>Often the parts of the structure that
    are the same between two elements can be represented as
    <cite>Flyweight</cite>s. This will help ensure that the two
    structures remain similar even through revisions of the
    document type.

    <h2>Known Uses</h2>The <cite>DocBook</cite>
    (http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/intro.html) DTD defines
    these four entities:
    <pre>
        <tt>

&lt;!ENTITY % div.title.content
"title, subtitle?, titleabbrev?"&gt;

&lt;!ENTITY % bookcomponent.title.content
"title, subtitle?, titleabbrev?"&gt;

&lt;!ENTITY % sect.title.content
"title, subtitle?, titleabbrev?"&gt;

&lt;!ENTITY % refsect.title.content
"title, subtitle?, titleabbrev?"&gt;

        </tt>
      
</pre>All four of the elements have identical content model. This
helps enormously in learning the specifics of this DTD.

    <h2>References</h2>See <cite>Structuring XML Documents</cite>,
    Section 3.2.2.
  </div>
</body>
</html>
