<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta name="generator" content=
  "HTML Tidy for Mac OS X (vers 31 October 2006 - Apple Inc. build 13), see www.w3.org" />

  <title>XML Design Patterns - Separate Metadata and Data</title>
  <meta name="DESCRIPTION" content=
  "XMLPatterns.com - Designing Good XML Structure with Patterns. Separate Metadata and Data." />
  <meta name="KEYWORDS" content=
  "XML, patterns, structure, DTD, XMLSchema, schema, design, designing, structuring, structural, document, documents, pattern, book, markup, language, mark up, effective, software, introduction" />
  </head>

<body>
  <b>XMLPatterns.com</b>

  <div>
    <h1>Separate Metadata and Data</h1>

    <h2>Abstract</h2>When documents contain content and data about
    the content, the two types of data should be clearly separated.

    <h2>Problem</h2>A document contains two distinct types of data,
    the content of the document, and data about the content. The
    data about the content is referred to as metadata. Since a
    document contains these two different types of data, it is not
    always to distinguish between the two types of data. For
    example:
    <pre>
        <tt>

&lt;ArticleSummaries&gt;
&lt;Author&gt;Phred Smith&lt;/Author&gt;
&lt;Name&gt;Patterns of Stereo Design&lt;/Name&gt;
&lt;Author&gt;J.R. Dolby&lt;/Author&gt;
&lt;Summary&gt;
Use of patterns to arrange stereo components.
&lt;/Summary&gt;
&lt;/ArticleSummary&gt;

        </tt>
      
</pre>Here there are two instances of the Author element, and at
first glance it might not be possible to tell what the first
instance of Author represents. Is it the author of the article
being summarized? Is it the author of the article itself? It can be
difficult to distinguish metadata from data.

    <h2>Context</h2>Data about the data needs to be included in a
    document. This could be things like the author's name, the
    creation date, security levels of the data, namespace
    information, schema information, or identification attributes
    for use with cross references.

    <h2>Forces</h2>A clear separation is needed between what is
    metadata and what is data that forms the body of the document.
    This affects ease of authoring and processing of the document
    because the context of the data is clear.

    <h2>Solution</h2>The context of the data and the metadata
    should be made clear. The metadata should usually appear before
    the data that it describes. This makes it clearer what the
    metadata is about, and allows processing software to know about
    the data before it actually gets the data. For example the size
    of a table might be considered metadata. If the processing
    software gets the size of the table before the actual data, it
    can layout the table and then insert t he data in the proper
    place as it encounters it.

    <h2>Examples</h2>See the <cite>Metadata in Separate
    Document</cite>, <cite>Head-Body</cite> patterns for examples.

    <h2>Discussion</h2>The resulting context provides structures
    that clearly identify the metadata as metadata. Often this
    pattern introduces new constructs to the document, so the
    overall length of the document may be increased. Authors and
    processing software need to clearly distinguish between
    metadata and content. This is not always possible to tell from
    the element names or positions. It is better to provide a
    context that will disambiguate the types of data. Obviously the
    first step in using this pattern is to be able to identify the
    difference between metadata and data. This is not always an
    easy task.

    <h2>Related Patterns</h2><cite>Metadata in Separate
    Document</cite>, <cite>Head-Body</cite> are specializations of
    this pattern.

    <h2>Known Uses</h2>

    <div>
      The <cite>W3C Namespace Recommendation</cite>
      (http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml-names/) includes namespace
      information in attributes that make it clearer that this is
      data about the documents, and not really part of the document
      itself.
    </div>

    <div>
      The XHTML DTD uses Head and Body elements to distinguish the
      metadata from the data.
    </div>
  </div>
</body>
</html>
