<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta name="generator" content=
  "HTML Tidy for Mac OS X (vers 31 October 2006 - Apple Inc. build 13), see www.w3.org" />

  <title>XML Design Patterns - Short Understandable Names</title>
  <meta name="DESCRIPTION" content=
  "XMLPatterns.com - Designing Good XML Structure with Patterns. Short Understandable Names." />
  <meta name="KEYWORDS" content=
  "XML, patterns, structure, DTD, XMLSchema, schema, design, designing, structuring, structural, document, documents, pattern, book, markup, language, mark up, effective, software, introduction" />
  </head>

<body>
  <b>XMLPatterns.com</b>

  <div>
    <h1>Short Understandable Names</h1>

    <h2>Abstract</h2>Names of elements and attributes should short
    and understandable by authors and developers of processing
    software.

    <h2>Problem</h2>Names need to be given to each attribute and
    name.

    <h2>Context</h2>This pattern can be used in any document type.
    All documents have named elements and attributes.

    <h2>Forces</h2>Shorter names make the authoring of documents
    easier and reduces the overall length of documents. Names that
    are too short make the document difficult to understand.

    <h2>Solution</h2>Use names that are long enough to convey the
    meaning of the document to its intended audience, but are short
    enough to be typed easily. Similar naming length issues are
    seen in programming languages.

    <h2>Examples</h2>A element name such as
    <tt>TelephoneDescription</tt> is fairly long,
    <tt>PhoneDescription</tt> or <tt>PhoneDesc</tt> might be more
    appropriate choices.

    <h2>Discussion</h2>

    <div>
      Use well known terms and abbreviations from the domain that
      the document deals with. These terms and abbreviations should
      be used consistently throughout the document. The audience of
      the document must be kept in mind, too much jargon can
      intimidate novices very quickly.
    </div>

    <div>
      Context can be take into account to shorten names as well. In
      the following sample:
      <pre>
          <tt>

            &lt;Telephone&gt;
            &lt;TelephoneModelName&gt;X-259&lt;/TelephoneModelName&gt;
            &lt;/Telephone&gt;

          </tt>
        
</pre>The element name <tt>TelephoneModelName</tt> could easily be
shortened to <tt>ModelName</tt> without loosing any
understandability of the document.
    </div>

    <h2>Related Patterns</h2>

    <h2>Known Uses</h2>HTML uses many element names which are
    shortened beyond understandability, for example the <tt>b</tt>,
    <tt>i</tt>, <tt>dt</tt>, and <tt>ul</tt> elements are very
    cryptic to novice users. Element names such as <tt>font</tt>
    and <tt>img</tt> convey much more meaning, and are not long
    enough to cause problems.
  </div>
</body>
</html>
