<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta name="generator" content=
  "HTML Tidy for Mac OS X (vers 31 October 2006 - Apple Inc. build 13), see www.w3.org" />

  <title>XML Design Patterns - Catch-All Element</title>
  <meta name="DESCRIPTION" content=
  "XMLPatterns.com - Designing Good XML Structure with Patterns. Catch-All Element." />
  <meta name="KEYWORDS" content=
  "XML, patterns, structure, DTD, XMLSchema, schema, design, designing, structuring, structural, document, documents, pattern, book, markup, language, mark up, effective, software, introduction" />
  </head>

<body>
  <b>XMLPatterns.com</b>

  <div>
    <h1>Catch-All Element</h1>

    <h2>Abstract</h2>A container element for dealing with unknown
    elements within the document.

    <h2>Problem</h2>Users need to be able to insert marked up text
    into the document that the document designer cannot foresee.
    For example, it is often necessary to have some presentation
    specific markup inside of a document. If this unexpected markup
    is spread throughout the document, then processors might have a
    hard time dealing with it.

    <h2>Context</h2>When documents are going to need to have the
    flexibility to include elements from other namespaces.

    <h2>Forces</h2>

    <div>
      Allowing elements from other document types allows you to
      save development costs and time by reusing schemas instead of
      developing them.
    </div>

    <div>
      Allowing documents to use other schemas allows for great
      flexibility.
    </div>

    <h2>Solution</h2>Create a new element which will serve as a
    container for elements of a new schema.

    <h2>Examples</h2>This example shows how a document that
    describes a car would allow a comment element that includes
    elements from HTML.
    <pre>
        <tt>

&lt;car&gt;
 &lt;model&gt;Pinto&lt;/model&gt;
 &lt;year&gt;1979&lt;/year&gt;
 &lt;comment&gt;
  &lt;xhtml:p xmlns:xhtml="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"&gt;
   This car &lt;xhtml:b&gt;runs great!&lt;/xhtml:b&gt;
  &lt;/xhtml:p&gt;
 &lt;/comment&gt;
&lt;/car&gt;

        </tt>
      
</pre>

    <p>To allow this type of inclusion using an XML Schema, use the
    any element as follows:</p>
    <pre>
<tt>
&lt;element name="car"&gt;
  &lt;complexType&gt;
    &lt;sequence&gt;
     &lt;element name="model" type="string"/&gt;
     &lt;element name="year"   type="string"/&gt;
     &lt;element name="comment"&gt;
      &lt;complexType&gt;
       &lt;sequence&gt;
        &lt;any namespace="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
             minOccurs="1" maxOccurs="unbounded"
             processContents="skip"/&gt;
       &lt;/sequence&gt;
      &lt;/complexType&gt;
     &lt;/element&gt;
    &lt;/sequence&gt;
   &lt;/complexType&gt;
&lt;/element&gt;

</tt>
</pre>

    <p>For details on the use of the any element see: The XML
    Schema Part 0: Primer Section 5.5 Any Element, Any Attribute
    (http://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema-0/#any)</p>

    <h2>Discussion</h2>

    <p>The element within the catch-all element are from a
    namespace outside of the namespace of the document-type being
    created.</p>

    <p>This tag acts as a warning to processors that some markup
    from another namespace is about to be encountered.</p>

    <h2>Related Patterns</h2>The <cite>Envelope</cite> pattern uses
    a similar mechanism, but the intent of the Envelope is to wrap
    a document without adding any domain data of its own. The
    intent of the Catch-All Element is to allow authors to mix data
    from separate document types.

    <h2>Known Uses</h2>The Real Estate DTD <cite>RELML</cite>
    (http://www.csn.net/public/design/rsdesign.html) uses an
    <tt>OTHER</tt> as a catch all element.
  </div>
</body>
</html>
