<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta name="generator" content=
  "HTML Tidy for Mac OS X (vers 31 October 2006 - Apple Inc. build 13), see www.w3.org" />

  <title>XML Design Patterns - Container Element</title>
  <meta name="DESCRIPTION" content=
  "XMLPatterns.com - Designing Good XML Structure with Patterns. Container Element." />
  <meta name="KEYWORDS" content=
  "XML, patterns, structure, DTD, XMLSchema, schema, design, designing, structuring, structural, document, documents, pattern, book, markup, language, mark up, effective, software, introduction" />
  </head>

<body>
  <b>XMLPatterns.com</b>

  <div>
    <h1>Container Element</h1>

    <h2>Abstract</h2>A container has multiple elements as child
    elements. A new element type is created to group related
    elements. This is a very general pattern and many other
    patterns specialize this one.

    <h2>Problem</h2>There are multiple elements that occur at the
    same level within a document. These elements can be separated
    into distinct groups.

    <h2>Context</h2>There are multiple elements that can occur as
    child elements of a single, higher level element, and some of
    these elements are related.

    <h2>Forces</h2>Documents need structure, and this is the
    easiest way to add structure to a document.

    <h2>Solution</h2>Create a new element that contains some of the
    multiple child elements.

    <h2>Examples</h2>
    <pre>
        <tt>

&lt;ComputerConfiguration&gt;
&lt;RAM&gt;128 MB&lt;/RAM&gt;
&lt;WordProcessor&gt;WordPerfect&lt;/WordProcessor&gt;
&lt;HardDriveSize&gt;8GB&lt;/HardDriveSize&gt;
&lt;XMLParser&gt;Xerces&lt;/XMLParser&gt;
&lt;/ComputerConfiguration&gt;

        </tt>
      
</pre>The above document describes a computer's configuration. If
however processing software was only interested in the hardware
aspects of the configuration it would need to check all of the
elements and extract the RAM and HardDriveSize elements. Compare
this to the following:
    <pre>
        <tt>

&lt;ComputerConfiguration&gt;
&lt;Software&gt;
&lt;Wordprocessor&gt;Wordperfect&lt;/Wordprocessor&gt;
&lt;XMLParser&gt;Xerces&lt;/XMLParser&gt;
&lt;/Software&gt;
&lt;Hardware&gt;
&lt;RAM&gt;128 MB&lt;RAM&gt;
&lt;HardDriveSize&gt;8 GB&lt;/HardDriveSize&gt;
&lt;/Hardware&gt;
&lt;/ComputerConfiguration&gt;

        </tt>
      
</pre>In this example the software and hardware aspects of the
configuration are separated. Processing software that need to
extract individual aspects can do so easily.

    <h2>Discussion</h2>

    <div>
      This pattern adds a level of abstraction to the structure of
      a document. This abstraction can be used to simply provide
      grouping of elements as in the Examples section. This
      grouping provides additional semantic information about the
      data.
    </div>

    <div>
      This extra element can also be a useful place to provide
      metadata about the individual group of data.
    </div>

    <h2>Related Patterns</h2>

    <div>
      The <cite>Marketplace</cite> pattern can be used if there is
      more than one category that can apply to each type.
    </div>

    <div>
      The <cite>Head-Body</cite> pattern uses two specific types of
      Container Elements, one for metadata and one for content.
    </div>

    <div>
      The <cite>Collection Element</cite> is a container for single
      type of element.
    </div>

    <h2>Known Uses</h2>The Isogen whitepaper Object-Oriented SGML
    <cite>Deconstructing SGML for Storage Section</cite>
    (http://www.isogen.com/papers/oosgml.html#storage) contains an
    an excellent example of where a container was used to help in
    the storage and retrieval of data.

    <h2>References</h2>See <cite>Structuring XML Documents</cite>,
    Section 5.2.1: Containers.
  </div>
</body>
</html>
