<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta name="generator" content=
  "HTML Tidy for Mac OS X (vers 31 October 2006 - Apple Inc. build 13), see www.w3.org" />

  <title>XML Design Patterns - Declare Before First Use</title>
  <meta name="DESCRIPTION" content=
  "XMLPatterns.com - Designing Good XML Structure with Patterns. Declare Before First Use." />
  <meta name="KEYWORDS" content=
  "XML, patterns, structure, DTD, XMLSchema, schema, design, designing, structuring, structural, document, documents, pattern, book, markup, language, mark up, effective, software, introduction" />
  </head>

<body>
  <b>XMLPatterns.com</b>

  <div>
    <h1>Declare Before First Use</h1>

    <h2>Abstract</h2>Elements which are referenced by another part
    of a document should be found earlier in the document than the
    first place they are referenced.

    <h2>Problem</h2>Often an element will refer to another one;
    this is what the ID and IDREF attributes in XML are used for. A
    common example is a footnote element. When processing software
    encounters an reference to an element that has not yet been
    processed, it often has to do more processing.

    <h2>Context</h2>This pattern applies to a wide variety of
    document types. It is common to have elements reference one
    another.

    <h2>Forces</h2>Ease of processing is effected by element order.
    Having elements in the correct order can make processing
    easier.

    <h2>Solution</h2>Ensure that the elements are ordered so that
    elements are encountered before they are referred to. This
    gives the processing software a better chance of doing a single
    pass traversal of the document.

    <h2>Examples</h2>
    <pre>
        <tt>

&lt;!DOCTYPE Doc [

&lt;!ELEMENT Person (Adress*, BillToAddress, ShipToAddress)&gt;

&lt;!ELEMENT Address (#PCDATA)&gt;
&lt;!ATTLIST Address id IDREF #REQUIRED &gt;

&lt;!ELEMENT BillToAddress EMPTY&gt;
&lt;!ATTLIST BillToAddress address IDREF #REQUIRED&gt;

&lt;!ELEMENT ShipToAddress EMPTY&gt;
&lt;!ATTLIST ShipToAddress address IDREF #REQUIRED&gt;

]&gt;

&lt;Doc&gt;
&lt;Person&gt;
&lt;Address id="1"&gt;
123 Main St, New York NY
&lt;/Address&gt;
&lt;Address id="2"&gt;
2001 5th Ave, New York NY
&lt;/Address&gt;
&lt;BillToAddress address="1"/&gt;
&lt;ShipToAddress address="2"/&gt;
&lt;/Person&gt;
&lt;/Doc&gt;

        </tt>
      
</pre>

    <h2>Discussion</h2>Stream based processors are popular,
    particularly when documents are very large, and may take up
    large amounts of memory, or when speed of processing is
    essential. It is often difficult to use stream based processing
    if elements that are needed to process a section of the
    document do not appear until after the place they are needed.
    This requires a forward-looking mechanism that goes against the
    principle of stream based processing.

    <h2>Related Patterns</h2>Consider this pattern when applying
    the <cite>Referenced Note</cite>. The <cite>Metadata
    First</cite> is very similar to this patterns, except it deals
    with metadata instead of general elements as this pattern does.

    <h2>Known Uses</h2>
  </div>
</body>
</html>
