<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta name="generator" content=
  "HTML Tidy for Mac OS X (vers 31 October 2006 - Apple Inc. build 13), see www.w3.org" />

  <title>XML Design Patterns - Domain Element</title>
  <meta name="DESCRIPTION" content=
  "XMLPatterns.com - Designing Good XML Structure with Patterns. Domain Element." />
  <meta name="KEYWORDS" content=
  "XML, patterns, structure, DTD, XMLSchema, schema, design, designing, structuring, structural, document, documents, pattern, book, markup, language, mark up, effective, software, introduction" />
  </head>

<body>
  <b>XMLPatterns.com</b>

  <div>
    <h1>Domain Element</h1>

    <h2>Abstract</h2>A concept from domain analysis is made into an
    element.

    <h2>Problem</h2>A concept in the domain needs to be recognized
    as a distinct unit of information when processing it.

    <h2>Context</h2>Every document has a domain, and every domain
    has unique concepts.

    <h2>Forces</h2>Data needs to be structured in order to be
    processed.

    <h2>Solution</h2>Concepts from the domain become elements in
    the document.

    <h2>Examples</h2>In a payroll processing system, Employees,
    Hourly Wage, and Hours Worked are all concepts from the domain.
    These can all be made into elements in a document type used for
    dealing with the payroll.
    <pre>
        <tt>

&lt;Employee id="62537"&gt;
&lt;HourlyWage&gt;25.00&lt;/HourlyWage&gt;
&lt;HoursWorked&gt;40&lt;/HoursWorked&gt;
&lt;/Employee&gt;

        </tt>
      
</pre>

    <h2>Discussion</h2>

    <div>
      Object Oriented Analysis and Entity-Relational DataBase
      modeling techniques are useful for finding domain concepts.
    </div>

    <div>
      Granularity of object needs to be thought about. Too granular
      results in more markup and more processing, if elements are
      not granular enough, extra parsing needs to be done by the
      application.
    </div>

    <h2>Related Patterns</h2>

    <h2>Known Uses</h2>

    <div>
      All document types are full of Domain Elements.
    </div>

    <div>
      XHTML is used for markup of documents to be displayed so it
      contains elements for things such as titles, headings, and
      paragraphs.
    </div>

    <div>
      <cite>The Information and Content Exchange (ICE)
      Protocol</cite> (http://www.icestandard.org/) is used for
      distributing web content, so it contains elements such as
      sender, receiver, request and response.
    </div>
  </div>
</body>
</html>
