<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta name="generator" content=
  "HTML Tidy for Mac OS X (vers 31 October 2006 - Apple Inc. build 13), see www.w3.org" />

  <title>XML Design Patterns - Flyweight</title>
  <meta name="DESCRIPTION" content=
  "XMLPatterns.com - Designing Good XML Structure with Patterns. Flyweight." />
  <meta name="KEYWORDS" content=
  "XML, patterns, structure, DTD, XMLSchema, schema, design, designing, structuring, structural, document, documents, pattern, book, markup, language, mark up, effective, software, introduction" />
  </head>

<body>
  <b>XMLPatterns.com</b>

  <div>
    <h1>Flyweight</h1>

    <h2>Abstract</h2>If the same information is included at many
    different points in a document the information can be placed in
    just one place, and shared from each place in the document that
    needs to refer to it.

    <h2>Problem</h2>Placing the same information in many different
    place can cause several problems:

    <ul>
      <li>Mistakes can be made in copying the information</li>

      <li>If the data changes, all occurrences of the information
      must be located and changed. This makes maintenance of the
      document difficult.</li>

      <li>Documents can become quite large if the same information
      is repeated over and over again.</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>Context</h2>This is a very general pattern, almost any
    document type can make use of it. This pattern can be used
    anywhere where the same information must be repeated more than
    once in a document. The repeated data can occur in the document
    declaration, or in the document instance itself.

    <h2>Forces</h2>This pattern can effect the length of the
    document, maintainability, and readability of the document.

    <h2>Solution</h2>Place the shared information in just one
    place, and make references to it from every place in the
    document that needs to include this information. There are
    several ways to do this:

    <ul>
      <li>Use XML Entity Declarations. These provide a way to do
      text substitutions inside of a document. <cite>The XML
      Specification Section 4.2 Entity Declarations</cite>
      (http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml#sec-entity-decl)</li>

      <li>Use the XLink attribute xlink:show="embed". This
      technique has the advantage of using a standard, so some
      tools may be available to do the processing. This is defined
      in <cite>The W3C's XML Linking Language Specification</cite>
      (http://www.w3.org/TR/xlink/#link-behaviors)</li>

      <li>Use ID and IDREF attributes. A reference can be made to
      an entity via an IDREF attribute. Applications processing
      this will need to do the processing to do this type of
      Flyweight.</li>
    </ul>See the Examples section for an example of each of the
    above techniques.

    <h2>Examples</h2>

    <div>
      <h3>XML Entities</h3>This example shows how XML Entities can
      be used to put a piece of information in just one place, and
      then have it appear in multiple places in the document.
      <pre>
          <tt>

&lt;!DOCTYPE Doc[
&lt;!ENTITY TITLE "My Document"&gt;
]&gt;
&lt;Document&gt;
&lt;title&gt;&amp;TITLE;&lt;/title&gt;
&lt;H1&gt;&amp;TITLE;&lt;/H1&gt;
This is my paragraph.
&lt;/Document&gt;

          </tt>
        
</pre>
    </div>

    <div>
      <h3>XLink</h3>This document shows the use of XLink attributes
      to include the contents of a document in two different
      places. Since XLink is a standard it is possible that
      existing tools could be used to do the substitution.
      <pre>
          <tt>

&lt;Document&gt;
&lt;title&gt;
&lt;include xlink:show="embed"
xlink:href="titledoc.txt"/&gt;
&lt;/title&gt;
&lt;h1&gt;
&lt;include xlink:show="embed"
xlink:href="titledoc.txt"/&gt;
&lt;/h1&gt;
This is my paragraph.
&lt;/Document&gt;

          </tt>
        
</pre>
    </div>

    <div>
      <h3>ID and IDREF</h3>This shows how ID and IDREF attributes
      can be used as a Flyweight. Note thats this would require
      some extra work on the part of the processing software to do
      the substitution.
      <pre>
          <tt>

&lt;Document&gt;
&lt;text id="title"&gt;My Document&lt;/text&gt;
&lt;title IDREF="title"/&gt;
&lt;h1 IDREF="title"/&gt;
&lt;/Document&gt;

          </tt>
        
</pre>
    </div>

    <h2>Discussion</h2>

    <p>This pattern can greatly enhance the maintainability of a
    document, if the same data is repeated several times, and that
    data changes, every occurrence of that data must be found and
    updated. This can be a tedious and error prone task. Having the
    data in only one place allows all occurrences of it to be
    changed at once.</p>

    <p>The Flyweight pattern should not be used if the shared
    information can vary over time. This would increase the
    maintenance burden of the document.</p>

    <p>Readability of the document can suffer if the Flyweight
    pattern is used, readers are forced to reference a different
    section of the document when looking at the contents.</p>

    <h2>Related Patterns</h2>See <cite>Declare Before First
    Use</cite> for suggestions on where to place the shared
    information.

    <h2>Known Uses</h2>

    <p>XHTML uses a a common attributes parameter entity that is a
    Flyweight.</p>

    <p><cite>The XML &amp; SGML Cookbook</cite> page 1-126 mentions
    the Flyweight pattern.</p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>
