<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta name="generator" content=
  "HTML Tidy for Mac OS X (vers 31 October 2006 - Apple Inc. build 13), see www.w3.org" />

  <title>XML Design Patterns - Generic Element</title>
  <meta name="DESCRIPTION" content=
  "XMLPatterns.com - Designing Good XML Structure with Patterns. Generic Element." />
  <meta name="KEYWORDS" content=
  "XML, patterns, structure, DTD, XMLSchema, schema, design, designing, structuring, structural, document, documents, pattern, book, markup, language, mark up, effective, software, introduction" />
  </head>

<body>
  <b>XMLPatterns.com</b>

  <div>
    <h1>Generic Element</h1>

    <h2>Abstract</h2>To provide flexibility to users of the
    document, designers can provide an element type that is very
    generic. The use of the generic element is not well specified
    by the documents type. This allows for authors to use the
    document type in ways that may not have been foreseen.

    <h2>Problem</h2>The designer does not know exactly what the
    users of the document intend to do with the document and needs
    to add flexibility to the document type.

    <h2>Context</h2>This is useful in general purpose document
    types, when flexibility is needed.

    <h2>Forces</h2>Flexibility is required to make some document
    types useful. This pattern can effect the ease of processing of
    the document type.

    <h2>Solution</h2>Provide a new element that does not have a
    specific meaning.

    <h2>Examples</h2>
    <pre>
        <tt>

&lt;Paragraph&gt;
Albert Camus' &lt;General type="book"&gt;The Stranger&lt;/General&gt;
is an existentialist novel.
&lt;/Paragraph&gt;

        </tt>
      
</pre>

    <h2>Discussion</h2>

    <p>Not providing enough flexibility can make document authors
    use the wrong element for markup. This can lead to documents
    that are difficult to understand, and mistakes in processing
    occur.</p>

    <p>This flexibility can make processing software difficult to
    create. Adding <cite>Role Attribute</cite>s to the generic
    element can help provide the processing software some clues as
    to how to process the element.</p>

    <h2>Related Patterns</h2>A <cite>Role Attribute</cite> is often
    used in conjunction with Generic Elements.

    <h2>Known Uses</h2>The <tt>div</tt> and <tt>span</tt> elements
    in XHTML.

    <h2>References</h2>The Fielded Text example from <cite>The XML
    &amp; SGML Cookbook</cite> page 2-48, uses Generic Elements.
  </div>
</body>
</html>
