<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta name="generator" content=
  "HTML Tidy for Mac OS X (vers 31 October 2006 - Apple Inc. build 13), see www.w3.org" />

  <title>XML Design Patterns - Reuse Document Types</title>
  <meta name="DESCRIPTION" content=
  "XMLPatterns.com - Designing Good XML Structure with Patterns. Reuse Document Types." />
  <meta name="KEYWORDS" content=
  "XML, patterns, structure, DTD, XMLSchema, schema, design, designing, structuring, structural, document, documents, pattern, book, markup, language, mark up, effective, software, introduction" />
  </head>

<body>
  <b>XMLPatterns.com</b>

  <div>
    <h1>Reuse Document Types</h1>

    <h2>Abstract</h2>If document types already exist for the job at
    hand, they can be reused completely or parts of them can be
    reused.

    <h2>Problem</h2>A new set of data needs to be marked up with
    XML and a document type is needed.

    <h2>Context</h2>This applies to almost every project. Before
    starting to create a new document type, existing ones that can
    be used should be looked for.

    <h2>Forces</h2>

    <div>
      Reusing existing data cuts down on development costs and
      times.
    </div>

    <div>
      Using industry standard document types increases chances that
      existing tools can be used out of the box, and allows for
      future interoperability.
    </div>

    <h2>Solution</h2>Reuse an existing document type. If an
    industry standard document type already exists, it should be
    reused.

    <h2>Examples</h2>

    <h2>Discussion</h2>Before anybody creates a new document type,
    existing document types should be investigated.

    <div>
      <h3>Complete Reuse</h3>Ideally a document type will exist
      that precisely matches the needs of the project. This can be
      beneficial in many areas:

      <ul>
        <li>Decrease development time and cost</li>

        <li>Reuse of Experience. Often developers of existing
        documents are groups of experienced experts who have put
        significant time into the development of the document type,
        and will produce high quality document types.</li>

        <li>Interoperability. Use of industry standard document
        types will increase the chance that the system will
        interoperate with other systems.</li>
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div>
      <h3>Partial Reuse</h3>If existing document types do not
      exactly match the needs of the project, they can be partially
      reused. Modification can be made to document types to allow
      this partial reuse. The easiest way to do this is simply to
      edit the existing document type. Some document types may
      allow for customization through techniques such as
      <cite>Extensible Content Model</cite> . Partially reusing
      document types still has the benefits of decreasing
      development time and cost, and reusing experience, but will
      not allow for interoperabilty. If interoperabilty is a
      desired goal of the system, modification of existing document
      types must be looked at very carefully.
    </div>

    <h2>Related Patterns</h2>

    <h2>Known Uses</h2>Many of the document types found in the
    references section are being reused in multiple projects.

    <h2>References</h2>There are several sources of existing
    schemas on the web: <cite>XML.org's Catalog</cite>
    (http://www.xml.org/xml/registry.jsp) <cite>Schema.net</cite>
    (http://www.schema.net/)
  </div>
</body>
</html>
