<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta name="generator" content=
  "HTML Tidy for Mac OS X (vers 31 October 2006 - Apple Inc. build 13), see www.w3.org" />

  <title>XML Design Patterns - Role Attribute</title>
  <meta name="DESCRIPTION" content=
  "XMLPatterns.com - Designing Good XML Structure with Patterns. Role Attribute." />
  <meta name="KEYWORDS" content=
  "XML, patterns, structure, DTD, XMLSchema, schema, design, designing, structuring, structural, document, documents, pattern, book, markup, language, mark up, effective, software, introduction" />
  </head>

<body>
  <b>XMLPatterns.com</b>

  <div>
    <h1>Role Attribute</h1>

    <h2>Abstract</h2>Sometimes the designer of a DTD can not
    foresee all of the needs that the author of a document will
    have. In order to give the author flexibility an attribute that
    specifies a role can be included on some of the elements.

    <h2>Problem</h2>Specialization of the document type sometimes
    needs to be made by an author. It is impossible for the
    designer of the DTD to foresee all of the uses that the authors
    have in mind. The designer may not even know where in the
    document the specialization will need to take place.

    <h2>Context</h2>For any document type that is intended for use
    outside a very limited context, users need flexibility to
    include uses which the designed of the document type has not
    foreseen.

    <h2>Forces</h2>By definition, document types constrain the
    choices that a document author can make. This constraint can at
    times be too limiting. Document users need flexibility to use
    the document type in ways not foreseen by the designer of the
    document type.

    <h2>Solution</h2>An attribute is created which can further
    describe the element. This role attribute further specializes
    the use of the Element.

    <h2>Examples</h2>
    <pre>
        <tt>

&lt;!ELEMENT Document (Paragraph)*&gt;
&lt;!ELEMENT Paragraph (#PCDATA)&gt;
&lt;!ATTLIST Paragraph Role CDATA&gt;

        </tt>
      
</pre>

    <p>Using the above DTD the author can create a document like
    this:</p>
    <pre>
        <tt>

&lt;Document&gt;
&lt;Paragraph Role="warning"&gt;
Do not attempt this at home.
&lt;/Paragraph&gt;
&lt;Paragraph&gt;
The following is a set of
instructions for creating
a bungee jumping cord from
elastic bands ...
&lt;/Paragraph&gt;
&lt;/Document&gt;

        </tt>
      
</pre>

    <p>The author intends for the "Do not attempt this at home"
    paragraph to appear emphasized in some way, for example in bold
    or in a different color. The DTD designer would have had no way
    of knowing the special needs of the author of the document, so
    a Role Attribute was placed on the paragraph, to allow for
    different types of paragraphs to exist.</p>

    <h2>Discussion</h2>

    <p>Including role attributes allows the author to have a great
    deal of flexibility. The flexibility may make the creation of
    processing software very difficult. Processing software will
    not be able to know in advance the intention of the author.
    However, by allowing customization of processing software
    through the use of scripts or stylesheet, this can be a very
    powerful pattern. Much of the power of <cite>XSLT</cite>
    (http://www.w3.org/TR/xslt) and <cite>CSS</cite>
    (http://www.w3.org/Style/) comes from being able to add Role
    Attributes.</p>

    <p>Role attributes can be used to extend the document type
    without changing the structure of documents. This can help
    extend the life of the document type between revisions, and can
    be used to prototype new features of the document type.</p>

    <h2>Related Patterns</h2>Role attributes are almost always used
    on <cite>Generic Element</cite> types. Generic Elements are
    created when the designer of a document type does not know all
    of the uses of that element, and the Role Attribute allows the
    author of a document to make the element more specialized to
    his or her use of the element.

    <h2>Known Uses</h2>

    <p>XHTML uses several role attributes including <tt>class</tt>
    and <tt>meta</tt> element in XHTML.</p>

    <p>The <cite>XMLspec DTD role attribute</cite>
    (http://www.w3.org/XML/1998/06/xmlspec-report-v21.htm#AEN620)
    shows a typical usage of this pattern.</p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>
