<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta name="generator" content=
  "HTML Tidy for Mac OS X (vers 31 October 2006 - Apple Inc. build 13), see www.w3.org" />

  <title>XML Design Patterns - Use XML</title>
  <meta name="DESCRIPTION" content=
  "XMLPatterns.com - Designing Good XML Structure with Patterns. Use XML." />
  <meta name="KEYWORDS" content=
  "XML, patterns, structure, DTD, XMLSchema, schema, design, designing, structuring, structural, document, documents, pattern, book, markup, language, mark up, effective, software, introduction" />
  </head>

<body>
  <b>XMLPatterns.com</b>

  <div>
    <h1>Use XML</h1>

    <h2>Abstract</h2>XML technology can be used to represent
    structured information. This pattern helps determine when XML
    is an appropriate solution.

    <h2>Problem</h2>When data in a system needs to be imported or
    exported, it needs some type of representation. There are many
    possible representations for example: Comma Separated Values,
    Java Object Serialization, Proprietary Binary Formats, HTML,
    CORBA IIOP Streams, RDBMS tables, and of course XML. Choosing
    the proper representation for the data can be difficult.

    <h2>Context</h2>XML can be an appropriate choice when one or
    more of the following is needed:

    <ul>
      <li>Content needs to be separate from its formatting.</li>

      <li>Data is shared between computers, applications or
      organizations.</li>

      <li>Human readable representation is needed.</li>

      <li>Readily available tools and resources.</li>
    </ul>There are some situations where XML may not be a good
    choice, among them is systems where:

    <ul>
      <li>Terseness is important.</li>

      <li>In a homogeneous environment.</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>Forces</h2>There are many forces to take into account when
    considering a data representation. Among the ones that XML can
    provide are simplicity, openness, extensibility,
    interoperability, and a technology with proven use.

    <h2>Solution</h2>Use XML for data representations.

    <h2>Examples</h2>

    <h2>Discussion</h2>It is impossible to have a complete
    discussion of the factors involved in make the decision of a
    data representation in the space of a single pattern, but it
    can try to provide some pointers.

    <h2>Related Patterns</h2>All other patterns in this language
    depend on first using this pattern, because they assume that
    XML is being used.

    <h2>Known Uses</h2>There are many places where XML is being
    used successfully. Here is a small sampling of them.

    <ul>
      <li>Data syndication. XML has been popular in this area, and
      several XML languages have been developed for this purpose.

        <ul>
          <li><cite>The Information and Content Exchange (ICE)
          Protocol</cite> (http://www.icestandard.org)</li>

          <li><cite>moreover.com</cite> (http://w.moreover.com/)
          provides news feeds in several different XML
          flavors.</li>

          <li>News can be syndicated to browsers via <cite>Rich
          Site Summary</cite>
          (http://www.xml.com/pub/a/2002/12/18/dive-into-xml.html)</li>
        </ul>
      </li>

      <li>Data exchange protocols for transport of messages from
      one system to another across a network.

        <ul>
          <li><cite>SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol)</cite>
          (http://www.w3.org/TR/SOAP/)</li>
        </ul>
      </li>

      <li>Configuration files J2EE uses <cite>Deployment
      Descriptors</cite> (http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/j2ee/) to
      configure various components</li>

      <li>Test Scripting The <cite>XML Test Suite</cite>
      (http://xmltestsuite.sourceforge.net/)</li>

      <li>Log files The
      <cite>LOGML</cite>(http://www.cs.rpi.edu/~puninj/LOGML/)
      specification is designed to describe log reports of web
      servers</li>

      <li>Web content management

        <ul>
          <li>See <cite>Ronald Bourret's Content Management Systems
          page</cite>
          (http://www.rpbourret.com/xml/ProdsCMS.htm)</li>
        </ul>
      </li>

      <li><cite>Wireless Application Data (WAP)</cite>
      (http://www.openmobilealliance.org/)</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>References</h2>

    <p>For more information:</p>

    <p>Simon St. Laurent's Essay - <cite>Why XML?</cite>
    (http://www.simonstl.com/articles/whyxml.htm) .</p>

    <p>A whitepaper by Bob Schloss at the IBM developerWorks site
    <cite>Ten best bets for XML applications</cite>
    (http://www.digitalearth.net.cn/GISRelatedITIssues/XML/IBM-Ten%20best%20bets%20for%20XML%20applications.pdf)</p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>
